High in this lecture I would like to tell a few words about hierarchical clustering.
So let's get started.
We have been talking about Kamins flustering and we have come to the conclusion that huge disadvantage
of Kamins clustering that we have to specify the K paramita in advance here for Wheeler called clustering.
We don't have to do so we build a tree like structure out of that data which contains basically all
the key parameters.
So in data mining Kyrle clustering is a method of cluster analyzes which seeks to build a hierarchy
of clusters.
It is an agglomerated approach.
So this is a bottom up approach.
Each observation starts in its own cluster and pairs of clusters are merged as one moves up the hierarchy.
In general the merges and splits are determined in a greedy manner.
The results of hierarchical clustering are usually presented.
This is what we are going to illustrate at the end of this lecture.
So what about the algorithm.
The algorithm has three important stops.
Start each node in its own cluster.
This is sort of an initialization phase then find the two closest clusters and merge them together and
repeat the algorithm until all the points are in the same cluster.
So there is only a single cluster left.
So the algorithm itself is quite easy and straightforward.
A good question is how are we able to measure the distance of two clusters.
We usually calculate the distance of the averages of the Klosters items.
OK so let's suppose the situation where we have two features.
The X1 as the X scored and that in this case and x 2 as the y coordinate in the two dimensional plane.
And we have several data points.
The distance is going to be the Euclidean distance between two points.
So this is how we are going to measure the distance between two entities in the dataset.
OK so we usually use Euclidean distance to observations are similar if the calculated distance is small.
We could use the correlation based distance as a route that two observations are similar if their features
are highly correlated.
In this case we are going to stick to Euclidean distances because we are going to have X scored and
as the first feature and the y coordinate as the second feature in a two dimensional plane.
So if we had a data set like this it is an unsupervised learning algorithm.
So we don't have the labels for the classes we don't know whether it's a green Clausewitz's a blue class
or so one or algorithm is going to decide the Klosters.
So basically this is the initialization of face every single data point in the data set in its distinct
Kastor.
And then we find the closest data points it is the two and the three and we merge them together basically.
And we keep building the danto gram.
So we connect the two door to the two and the three which are the closest pair of points in these two
dimensional plane.
OK and we merge them together.
Then the next step of the algorithm.
What are the next closest pair of points.
It is the merged destry point and point four.
So again we keep merging them together.
And what's very important that we keep constructing the danto Graham furder so we can add the four and
merge two and three points.
OK.
That was the next two closest pair of points.
It is the one and the merge two three four.
So we have to construct the thendo grammar again and we connect the wan we demurred.
Two three four datapoint.
And of course we merge them together.
The last one is the five and the two story for one data point.
So again we merge them in the sense that we connect the data point five and the merge data set.
So this is how we keep building the Dandong.
And OK we merge them together.
So when we have just a single day to laugh this is when we terminate or algorithm you may pose the question
why is it important to construct this then program because these then diagram includes all the cases
we have been discussing for k means clustering.
When we are looking for k equal to 2.
So we are looking for two clusters.
We have to cart the dog ran like this.
And in this case the 5 is going to be in the same cluster and all of the other data point is going to
be in a second Gloucester.
So we have the yellow dots for example and the Green Dot what if we would like to find for Klosters
then the five is going to be in a single cluster.
The four is going to be in a single cluster.
The one is going to be in a single cluster and the two and three dots are going to be in the same cluster.
So this is how we are able to get the number of clusters from the Nandigram.
What's very important that descaling off of her idea balls does matter.
So we should use some way of standardization as we have seen for the K nearest neighbor and of liable
should be centered to have means zero or scale to have standard deviation warm.
We have to do it in order to make sure that our hierarchical clustering algorithm works fine.
So that's all about the hierarchical clustering and what's more important that in this case we keep
constructing the danto Graham because the dandle crime is going to contain the information that was
going to be the distant Klosters for the different parameters.
Thanks for watching.